What is Python?
Python is a programming language that is widely used in web applications, software development, data science, and machine learning (ML). Developers use Python because it is efficient and easy to learn and can run on many different platforms. Python software is free to download, integrates well with all types of systems, and increases development speed.

What are the benefits of Python?
Benefits of Python include:

Developers can easily read and understand a Python program because it has basic, English-like syntax. 
Python makes developers more productive because they can write a Python program using fewer lines of code compared to many other languages.
Python has a large standard library that contains reusable codes for almost any task. As a result, developers do not have to write code from scratch.
Developers can easily use Python with other popular programming languages such as Java, C, and C++.
The active Python community includes millions of supportive developers around the globe. If you face an issue, you can get quick support from the community.
Plenty of helpful resources are available on the internet if you want to learn Python. For example, you can easily find videos, tutorials, documentation, and developer guides.
Python is portable across different computer operating systems such as Windows, macOS, Linux, and Unix.
How is Python used?
The Python language has several use cases in application development, including the following examples:

Server-side web development
Server-side web development includes the complex backend functions that websites perform to display information to the user. For example, websites must interact with databases, talk to other websites, and protect data when sending it over the network. 

Python is useful for writing server-side code because it offers many libraries that consist of prewritten code for complex backend functions. Developers also use a wide range of Python frameworks that provide all the necessary tools to build web applications faster and more easily. For example, developers can create the skeleton web application in seconds because they don’t need to write it from scratch. They can then test it using the framework’s testing tools, without depending on external testing tools.

Automation with Python scripts
A scripting language is a programming language that automates tasks that humans normally perform. Programmers widely use Python scripts to automate many day-to-day tasks such as the following:

Renaming a large number of files at once
Converting a file to another file type
Removing duplicate words in a text file
Performing basic mathematical operations
Sending email messages
Downloading content
Performing basic log analysis
Finding errors in multiple files
Data science and machine learning
Data science is extracting valuable knowledge from data, and machine learning (ML) teaches computers to automatically learn from the data and make accurate predictions. Data scientists use Python for data science tasks such as the following:

Fixing and removing incorrect data, which is known as data cleaning 
Extracting and selecting various features of data
Data labeling, which is adding meaningful names for the data
Finding different statistics from data
Visualizing data by using charts and graphs such as line charts, bar graphs, histograms, and pie charts
 
Data scientists use Python ML libraries to train ML models and build classifiers that accurately classify data. People in different fields use Python-based classifiers to do classification tasks such as image, text, and network traffic classification; speech recognition; and facial recognition. Data scientists also use Python for deep learning, an advanced ML technique.
Software development